doc/guides/nics/atlantic.rst, before:

..  SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause
    Copyright(c) 2018 Aquantia Corporation.

Aquantia Atlantic DPDK Driver
=============================

Atlantic DPDK driver provides DPDK support for Aquantia's AQtion family of chipsets: AQC107/AQC108/AQC109

More information can be found at `Aquantia Official Website
<https://www.aquantia.com/products/client-connectivity/>`_.

Supported features
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Base L2 features
- Promiscuous mode
- Multicast mode
- Port statistics
- RSS (Receive Side Scaling)
- Checksum offload
- Jumbo Frame upto 16K

Configuration Information
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- ``CONFIG_RTE_LIBRTE_ATLANTIC_PMD`` (default ``y``)

Application Programming Interface
---------------------------------

Limitations or Known issues
---------------------------

Statistics
~~~~~~~~~~

MTU setting
~~~~~~~~~~~

Atlantic NIC supports up to 16K jumbo frame size

Supported Chipsets and NICs
---------------------------

- Aquantia AQtion AQC107 10 Gigabit Ethernet Controller
- Aquantia AQtion AQC108 5 Gigabit Ethernet Controller
- Aquantia AQtion AQC109 2.5 Gigabit Ethernet Controller

Commit message:

net/atlantic: enable MACsec configuration
These are driver MACsec configuration routines.
They fill in config structures and prepare these
to be send to FW. Actual configuration will happen in
link interrupt handler.

We declare MACsec offload bits in DPDK offload capabilities
and provide external experimental MACsec API wrappers.

Also update documentation with feature matrix for the
enabled feature.

Signed-off-by: Pavel Belous <pavel.belous@aquantia.com>
Signed-off-by: Igor Russkikh <igor.russkikh@aquantia.com>

doc/guides/nics/atlantic.rst, after:

..  SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause
    Copyright(c) 2018 Aquantia Corporation.

Aquantia Atlantic DPDK Driver
=============================

Atlantic DPDK driver provides DPDK support for Aquantia's AQtion family of chipsets: AQC107/AQC108/AQC109

More information can be found at `Aquantia Official Website
<https://www.aquantia.com/products/client-connectivity/>`_.

Supported features
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Base L2 features
- Promiscuous mode
- Multicast mode
- Port statistics
- RSS (Receive Side Scaling)
- Checksum offload
- Jumbo Frame upto 16K
- MACSEC offload

Experimental API features
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- MACSEC PMD API is considered as experimental and is subject to change/removal in next DPDK releases.

Configuration Information
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- ``CONFIG_RTE_LIBRTE_ATLANTIC_PMD`` (default ``y``)

Application Programming Interface
---------------------------------

Limitations or Known issues
---------------------------

Statistics
~~~~~~~~~~

MTU setting
~~~~~~~~~~~

Atlantic NIC supports up to 16K jumbo frame size

Supported Chipsets and NICs
---------------------------

- Aquantia AQtion AQC107 10 Gigabit Ethernet Controller
- Aquantia AQtion AQC108 5 Gigabit Ethernet Controller
- Aquantia AQtion AQC109 2.5 Gigabit Ethernet Controller
