doc/guides/nics/octeontx2.rst, before:

..  SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause
    Copyright(C) 2019 Marvell International Ltd.

OCTEON TX2 Poll Mode driver
===========================

The OCTEON TX2 ETHDEV PMD (**librte_pmd_octeontx2**) provides poll mode ethdev
driver support for the inbuilt network device found in **Marvell OCTEON TX2**
SoC family as well as for their virtual functions (VF) in SR-IOV context.

More information can be found at `Marvell Official Website
<https://www.marvell.com/embedded-processors/infrastructure-processors>`_.

Features
--------

Features of the OCTEON TX2 Ethdev PMD are:

- Packet type information
- Promiscuous mode
- Jumbo frames
- SR-IOV VF
- Lock-free Tx queue
- Multiple queues for TX and RX
- Receiver Side Scaling (RSS)
- MAC/VLAN filtering
- Multicast MAC filtering
- Generic flow API
- Inner and Outer Checksum offload
- VLAN/QinQ stripping and insertion
- Port hardware statistics
- Link state information
- Link flow control
- MTU update
- Scatter-Gather IO support
- Vector Poll mode driver
- Debug utilities - Context dump and error interrupt support
- IEEE1588 timestamping
- HW offloaded `ethdev Rx queue` to `eventdev event queue` packet injection
- Support Rx interrupt

Prerequisites
-------------

See :doc:`../platform/octeontx2` for setup information.

Compile time Config Options
---------------------------

The following options may be modified in the ``config`` file.

- ``CONFIG_RTE_LIBRTE_OCTEONTX2_PMD`` (default ``y``)

  Toggle compilation of the ``librte_pmd_octeontx2`` driver.

Driver compilation and testing
------------------------------

Refer to the document :ref:`compiling and testing a PMD for a NIC <pmd_build_and_test>`
for details.

To compile the OCTEON TX2 PMD for Linux arm64 gcc,
use arm64-octeontx2-linux-gcc as target.

#. Running testpmd:

   Follow instructions available in the document
   :ref:`compiling and testing a PMD for a NIC <pmd_build_and_test>`
   to run testpmd.

   Example output:

   .. code-block:: console

      ./build/app/testpmd -c 0x300 -w 0002:02:00.0 -- --portmask=0x1 --nb-cores=1 --port-topology=loop --rxq=1 --txq=1
      EAL: Detected 24 lcore(s)
      EAL: Detected 1 NUMA nodes
      EAL: Multi-process socket /var/run/dpdk/rte/mp_socket
      EAL: No available hugepages reported in hugepages-2048kB
      EAL: Probing VFIO support...
      EAL: VFIO support initialized
      EAL: PCI device 0002:02:00.0 on NUMA socket 0
      EAL:   probe driver: 177d:a063 net_octeontx2
      EAL:   using IOMMU type 1 (Type 1)
      testpmd: create a new mbuf pool <mbuf_pool_socket_0>: n=267456, size=2176, socket=0
      testpmd: preferred mempool ops selected: octeontx2_npa
      Configuring Port 0 (socket 0)
      PMD: Port 0: Link Up - speed 40000 Mbps - full-duplex

      Port 0: link state change event
      Port 0: 36:10:66:88:7A:57
      Checking link statuses...
      Done
      No commandline core given, start packet forwarding
      io packet forwarding - ports=1 - cores=1 - streams=1 - NUMA support enabled, MP allocation mode: native
      Logical Core 9 (socket 0) forwards packets on 1 streams:
        RX P=0/Q=0 (socket 0) -> TX P=0/Q=0 (socket 0) peer=02:00:00:00:00:00

        io packet forwarding packets/burst=32
        nb forwarding cores=1 - nb forwarding ports=1
        port 0: RX queue number: 1 Tx queue number: 1
          Rx offloads=0x0 Tx offloads=0x10000
          RX queue: 0
            RX desc=512 - RX free threshold=0
            RX threshold registers: pthresh=0 hthresh=0  wthresh=0
            RX Offloads=0x0
          TX queue: 0
            TX desc=512 - TX free threshold=0
            TX threshold registers: pthresh=0 hthresh=0  wthresh=0
            TX offloads=0x10000 - TX RS bit threshold=0
      Press enter to exit

Runtime Config Options
----------------------

- ``HW offload ptype parsing disable`` (default ``0``)

   Packet type parsing is HW offloaded by default and this feature may be toggled
   using ``ptype_disable`` ``devargs`` parameter.

- ``Rx&Tx scalar mode enable`` (default ``0``)

   Ethdev supports both scalar and vector mode, it may be selected at runtime
   using ``scalar_enable`` ``devargs`` parameter.

- ``RSS reta size`` (default ``64``)

   RSS redirection table size may be configured during runtime using ``reta_size``
   ``devargs`` parameter.

   For example::

      -w 0002:02:00.0,reta_size=256

   With the above configuration, reta table of size 256 is populated.

- ``Flow priority levels`` (default ``3``)

   RTE Flow priority levels can be configured during runtime using
   ``flow_max_priority`` ``devargs`` parameter.

   For example::

      -w 0002:02:00.0,flow_max_priority=10

   With the above configuration, priority level was set to 10 (0-9). Max
   priority level supported is 32.

- ``Reserve Flow entries`` (default ``8``)

   RTE flow entries can be pre allocated and the size of pre allocation can be
   selected runtime using ``flow_prealloc_size`` ``devargs`` parameter.

   For example::

      -w 0002:02:00.0,flow_prealloc_size=4

   With the above configuration, pre alloc size was set to 4. Max pre alloc
   size supported is 32.

- ``Max SQB buffer count`` (default ``512``)

   Send queue descriptor buffer count may be limited during runtime using
   ``max_sqb_count`` ``devargs`` parameter.

   For example::

      -w 0002:02:00.0,max_sqb_count=64

   With the above configuration, each send queue's decscriptor buffer count is
   limited to a maximum of 64 buffers.

- ``switch header enable`` (default ``none``)

   A port can be configured to a specific switch header type by using
   ``switch_header`` ``devargs`` parameter.

   For example::

      -w 0002:02:00.0,switch_header="higig2"

   With the above configuration, higig2 will be enabled on that port and the
   traffic on this port should be higig2 traffic only. Supported switch header
   types are "higig2" and "dsa".

.. note::

   Above devarg parameters are configurable per device, user needs to pass the
   parameters to all the PCIe devices if application requires to configure on
   all the ethdev ports.

Limitations
-----------

``mempool_octeontx2`` external mempool handler dependency
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The OCTEON TX2 SoC family NIC has inbuilt HW assisted external mempool manager.
``net_octeontx2`` pmd only works with ``mempool_octeontx2`` mempool handler
as it is performance wise most effective way for packet allocation and Tx buffer
recycling on OCTEON TX2 SoC platform.

CRC stripping
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The OCTEON TX2 SoC family NICs strip the CRC for every packet being received by
the host interface irrespective of the offload configuration.

Multicast MAC filtering
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``net_octeontx2`` pmd supports multicast mac filtering feature only on physical
function devices.

Debugging Options
-----------------

.. _table_octeontx2_ethdev_debug_options:

.. table:: OCTEON TX2 ethdev debug options

   +---+------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
   | # | Component  | EAL log command                                       |
   +===+============+=======================================================+
   | 1 | NIX        | --log-level='pmd\.net.octeontx2,8'                    |
   +---+------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
   | 2 | NPC        | --log-level='pmd\.net.octeontx2\.flow,8'              |
   +---+------------+-------------------------------------------------------+

RTE Flow Support
----------------

The OCTEON TX2 SoC family NIC has support for the following patterns and
actions.

Patterns:

.. _table_octeontx2_supported_flow_item_types:

.. table:: Item types

   +----+--------------------------------+
   | #  | Pattern Type                   |
   +====+================================+
   | 1  | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_ETH         |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 2  | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_VLAN        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 3  | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_E_TAG       |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 4  | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_IPV4        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 5  | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_IPV6        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 6  | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_ARP_ETH_IPV4|
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 7  | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_MPLS        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 8  | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_ICMP        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 9  | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_UDP         |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 10 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_TCP         |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 11 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_SCTP        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 12 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_ESP         |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 13 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_GRE         |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 14 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_NVGRE       |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 15 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_VXLAN       |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 16 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_GTPC        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 17 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_GTPU        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 18 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_GENEVE      |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 19 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_VXLAN_GPE   |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 20 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_IPV6_EXT    |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 21 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_VOID        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 22 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_ANY         |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 23 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_GRE_KEY     |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 24 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_HIGIG2      |
   +----+--------------------------------+

.. note::

   ``RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_GRE_KEY`` works only when checksum and routing
   bits in the GRE header are equal to 0.

Actions:

.. _table_octeontx2_supported_ingress_action_types:

.. table:: Ingress action types

   +----+--------------------------------+
   | #  | Action Type                    |
   +====+================================+
   | 1  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_VOID      |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 2  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_MARK      |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 3  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_FLAG      |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 4  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_COUNT     |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 5  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_DROP      |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 6  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_QUEUE     |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 7  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_RSS       |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 8  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_SECURITY  |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 9  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_PF        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 10 | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_VF        |
   +----+--------------------------------+

.. _table_octeontx2_supported_egress_action_types:

.. table:: Egress action types

   +----+--------------------------------+
   | #  | Action Type                    |
   +====+================================+
   | 1  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_COUNT     |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 2  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_DROP      |
   +----+--------------------------------+

Commit message:

net/octeontx2: support SDP interface
System DPI Packet Interface Unit (SDP) is a co-processor
of OCTEON TX2 which provides PCIe endpoint support for a
remote host to DMA packets into and out of the OCTEON TX2 SoC.
SDP interface comes in to live only when it is connected in
EP mode. It exposes input and output queue pairs to remote host
for instruction input and packet output. It can be used as
a communication channel between remote host and OCTEON TX2.
Host machine needs to use corresponding user/kernel mode
driver to communicate with SDP interface on OCTEON TX2 SoC.

SDP interface support is limited to SDP PF device now.
No SDP VF support.

Signed-off-by: Subrahmanyam Nilla <snilla@marvell.com>
Signed-off-by: Venkateshwarlu Nalla <venkatn@marvell.com>
Acked-by: Jerin Jacob <jerinj@marvell.com>

doc/guides/nics/octeontx2.rst, after:

..  SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause
    Copyright(C) 2019 Marvell International Ltd.

OCTEON TX2 Poll Mode driver
===========================

The OCTEON TX2 ETHDEV PMD (**librte_pmd_octeontx2**) provides poll mode ethdev
driver support for the inbuilt network device found in **Marvell OCTEON TX2**
SoC family as well as for their virtual functions (VF) in SR-IOV context.

More information can be found at `Marvell Official Website
<https://www.marvell.com/embedded-processors/infrastructure-processors>`_.

Features
--------

Features of the OCTEON TX2 Ethdev PMD are:

- Packet type information
- Promiscuous mode
- Jumbo frames
- SR-IOV VF
- Lock-free Tx queue
- Multiple queues for TX and RX
- Receiver Side Scaling (RSS)
- MAC/VLAN filtering
- Multicast MAC filtering
- Generic flow API
- Inner and Outer Checksum offload
- VLAN/QinQ stripping and insertion
- Port hardware statistics
- Link state information
- Link flow control
- MTU update
- Scatter-Gather IO support
- Vector Poll mode driver
- Debug utilities - Context dump and error interrupt support
- IEEE1588 timestamping
- HW offloaded `ethdev Rx queue` to `eventdev event queue` packet injection
- Support Rx interrupt

Prerequisites
-------------

See :doc:`../platform/octeontx2` for setup information.

Compile time Config Options
---------------------------

The following options may be modified in the ``config`` file.

- ``CONFIG_RTE_LIBRTE_OCTEONTX2_PMD`` (default ``y``)

  Toggle compilation of the ``librte_pmd_octeontx2`` driver.

Driver compilation and testing
------------------------------

Refer to the document :ref:`compiling and testing a PMD for a NIC <pmd_build_and_test>`
for details.

To compile the OCTEON TX2 PMD for Linux arm64 gcc,
use arm64-octeontx2-linux-gcc as target.

#. Running testpmd:

   Follow instructions available in the document
   :ref:`compiling and testing a PMD for a NIC <pmd_build_and_test>`
   to run testpmd.

   Example output:

   .. code-block:: console

      ./build/app/testpmd -c 0x300 -w 0002:02:00.0 -- --portmask=0x1 --nb-cores=1 --port-topology=loop --rxq=1 --txq=1
      EAL: Detected 24 lcore(s)
      EAL: Detected 1 NUMA nodes
      EAL: Multi-process socket /var/run/dpdk/rte/mp_socket
      EAL: No available hugepages reported in hugepages-2048kB
      EAL: Probing VFIO support...
      EAL: VFIO support initialized
      EAL: PCI device 0002:02:00.0 on NUMA socket 0
      EAL:   probe driver: 177d:a063 net_octeontx2
      EAL:   using IOMMU type 1 (Type 1)
      testpmd: create a new mbuf pool <mbuf_pool_socket_0>: n=267456, size=2176, socket=0
      testpmd: preferred mempool ops selected: octeontx2_npa
      Configuring Port 0 (socket 0)
      PMD: Port 0: Link Up - speed 40000 Mbps - full-duplex

      Port 0: link state change event
      Port 0: 36:10:66:88:7A:57
      Checking link statuses...
      Done
      No commandline core given, start packet forwarding
      io packet forwarding - ports=1 - cores=1 - streams=1 - NUMA support enabled, MP allocation mode: native
      Logical Core 9 (socket 0) forwards packets on 1 streams:
        RX P=0/Q=0 (socket 0) -> TX P=0/Q=0 (socket 0) peer=02:00:00:00:00:00

        io packet forwarding packets/burst=32
        nb forwarding cores=1 - nb forwarding ports=1
        port 0: RX queue number: 1 Tx queue number: 1
          Rx offloads=0x0 Tx offloads=0x10000
          RX queue: 0
            RX desc=512 - RX free threshold=0
            RX threshold registers: pthresh=0 hthresh=0  wthresh=0
            RX Offloads=0x0
          TX queue: 0
            TX desc=512 - TX free threshold=0
            TX threshold registers: pthresh=0 hthresh=0  wthresh=0
            TX offloads=0x10000 - TX RS bit threshold=0
      Press enter to exit

Runtime Config Options
----------------------

- ``HW offload ptype parsing disable`` (default ``0``)

   Packet type parsing is HW offloaded by default and this feature may be toggled
   using ``ptype_disable`` ``devargs`` parameter.

- ``Rx&Tx scalar mode enable`` (default ``0``)

   Ethdev supports both scalar and vector mode, it may be selected at runtime
   using ``scalar_enable`` ``devargs`` parameter.

- ``RSS reta size`` (default ``64``)

   RSS redirection table size may be configured during runtime using ``reta_size``
   ``devargs`` parameter.

   For example::

      -w 0002:02:00.0,reta_size=256

   With the above configuration, reta table of size 256 is populated.

- ``Flow priority levels`` (default ``3``)

   RTE Flow priority levels can be configured during runtime using
   ``flow_max_priority`` ``devargs`` parameter.

   For example::

      -w 0002:02:00.0,flow_max_priority=10

   With the above configuration, priority level was set to 10 (0-9). Max
   priority level supported is 32.

- ``Reserve Flow entries`` (default ``8``)

   RTE flow entries can be pre allocated and the size of pre allocation can be
   selected runtime using ``flow_prealloc_size`` ``devargs`` parameter.

   For example::

      -w 0002:02:00.0,flow_prealloc_size=4

   With the above configuration, pre alloc size was set to 4. Max pre alloc
   size supported is 32.

- ``Max SQB buffer count`` (default ``512``)

   Send queue descriptor buffer count may be limited during runtime using
   ``max_sqb_count`` ``devargs`` parameter.

   For example::

      -w 0002:02:00.0,max_sqb_count=64

   With the above configuration, each send queue's decscriptor buffer count is
   limited to a maximum of 64 buffers.

- ``switch header enable`` (default ``none``)

   A port can be configured to a specific switch header type by using
   ``switch_header`` ``devargs`` parameter.

   For example::

      -w 0002:02:00.0,switch_header="higig2"

   With the above configuration, higig2 will be enabled on that port and the
   traffic on this port should be higig2 traffic only. Supported switch header
   types are "higig2" and "dsa".

.. note::

   Above devarg parameters are configurable per device, user needs to pass the
   parameters to all the PCIe devices if application requires to configure on
   all the ethdev ports.

Limitations
-----------

``mempool_octeontx2`` external mempool handler dependency
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The OCTEON TX2 SoC family NIC has inbuilt HW assisted external mempool manager.
``net_octeontx2`` pmd only works with ``mempool_octeontx2`` mempool handler
as it is performance wise most effective way for packet allocation and Tx buffer
recycling on OCTEON TX2 SoC platform.

CRC stripping
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The OCTEON TX2 SoC family NICs strip the CRC for every packet being received by
the host interface irrespective of the offload configuration.

Multicast MAC filtering
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``net_octeontx2`` pmd supports multicast mac filtering feature only on physical
function devices.

SDP interface support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
OCTEON TX2 SDP interface support is limited to PF device, No VF support.

Debugging Options
-----------------

.. _table_octeontx2_ethdev_debug_options:

.. table:: OCTEON TX2 ethdev debug options

   +---+------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
   | # | Component  | EAL log command                                       |
   +===+============+=======================================================+
   | 1 | NIX        | --log-level='pmd\.net.octeontx2,8'                    |
   +---+------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
   | 2 | NPC        | --log-level='pmd\.net.octeontx2\.flow,8'              |
   +---+------------+-------------------------------------------------------+

RTE Flow Support
----------------

The OCTEON TX2 SoC family NIC has support for the following patterns and
actions.

Patterns:

.. _table_octeontx2_supported_flow_item_types:

.. table:: Item types

   +----+--------------------------------+
   | #  | Pattern Type                   |
   +====+================================+
   | 1  | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_ETH         |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 2  | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_VLAN        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 3  | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_E_TAG       |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 4  | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_IPV4        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 5  | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_IPV6        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 6  | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_ARP_ETH_IPV4|
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 7  | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_MPLS        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 8  | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_ICMP        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 9  | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_UDP         |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 10 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_TCP         |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 11 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_SCTP        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 12 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_ESP         |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 13 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_GRE         |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 14 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_NVGRE       |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 15 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_VXLAN       |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 16 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_GTPC        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 17 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_GTPU        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 18 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_GENEVE      |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 19 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_VXLAN_GPE   |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 20 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_IPV6_EXT    |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 21 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_VOID        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 22 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_ANY         |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 23 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_GRE_KEY     |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 24 | RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_HIGIG2      |
   +----+--------------------------------+

.. note::

   ``RTE_FLOW_ITEM_TYPE_GRE_KEY`` works only when checksum and routing
   bits in the GRE header are equal to 0.

Actions:

.. _table_octeontx2_supported_ingress_action_types:

.. table:: Ingress action types

   +----+--------------------------------+
   | #  | Action Type                    |
   +====+================================+
   | 1  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_VOID      |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 2  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_MARK      |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 3  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_FLAG      |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 4  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_COUNT     |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 5  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_DROP      |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 6  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_QUEUE     |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 7  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_RSS       |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 8  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_SECURITY  |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 9  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_PF        |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 10 | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_VF        |
   +----+--------------------------------+

.. _table_octeontx2_supported_egress_action_types:

.. table:: Egress action types

   +----+--------------------------------+
   | #  | Action Type                    |
   +====+================================+
   | 1  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_COUNT     |
   +----+--------------------------------+
   | 2  | RTE_FLOW_ACTION_TYPE_DROP      |
   +----+--------------------------------+
